
] Discussion of CA Senate Floor held on 2016-12-05
] printing transcript: 

] Discussing CA_201720180SR7

[00:00:08] Kevin De Leon: 
	If I can have the members please take their seats to our invited guests if they could be so kind enough up in the gallery, as well as behind the columns if you could please take your seats. Sergeants, can we get an extra chair, please, for Senator Lara? Can we have some chair swapping, perhaps? Good morning to each and every one of you, and welcome to the start of the 2017-18 Senate State of the California session. It is indeed an honor and pleasure to receive each and every one of you here today. I want to welcome all of you. This is indeed a glorious, beautiful day. In the greatest state in the greatest country in the world. It's an honor to have each and every one of here today, these Senators. These Senators-elect. The incredible Senator President Pro-Tem emerituses who are here today, too, as well as the family members and loved ones who have graced us with their presence here today. On behalf of Senator Elector Skinner, I'd like to begin by honoring the memory of those tragic lives that were lost in the tragic fire in Oakland this weekend. Our hearts go out to the families and friends who lost their loved ones. I would ask each and every one of you here today to please rise as we observe a moment of silence. Thank you very much Senator-elect Skinner. Our deepest condolences to your constituents in the great County of Alameda. Friends, we will begin this morning's session with an incredible musical prelude performed by the Sacramento Children's Chorus, under the direction of Ms. Lynn Stevens. You may be seated. How beautiful. Thank you very much, Ms. Lynn Stevens and once again, folks, let's give it up for the Sacramento Children's Choir. Now, before I turn it over to our Senior member of the California State Senate, I'd like to take, it's an honor and privilege for me to introduce wonderful leaders of this incredible, August institution. To my left let's please give it up for the honorable Bill Locker, 43rd pro Tem of the California State Senate. To my left we have the 44th President of the California State Senate from San Francisco, the famous, the honorable Johnny Buren, Johnny Buren. No expletives today Johnny, please. To my right, from Alameda County, we have the honorable, the 45th Senate President pro Tem of the great State of California of this Senate, Mr. Don Perata, honorable Don Perata. And finally to my far right, although he's on opposite spectrum of the political spectrum, that is my predecessor, the 46th Senate President pro Tem of this incredible body, the California State Senate, the honorable Darrell Steinberg, Darrell Steinberg. In the bipartisan fashion, friends and colleagues, it is my deep honor to turn this gavel over to Senator Jim Nielsen, our most senior member of the California State Senate. Let's give it up for Senator Jim Nielsen.
[00:18:26] Jim Nielsen: 
	Pro Tem De Leon and former pro Tems and honorable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, and Senators, that form of wonderful choral presentation, wasn't it a great statement about our nation? And what a wonderful world indeed they sang too and it also is a wonderful day, December 5th, 2016, the year that this Senate is going to be sworn in.  The hour of 12:00 having arrived pursuant to Section 4 the Article 3A of the Constitution of the State of California. The Senators will please take their seat as the 92nd convening of the California State Legislature will convene. May I remind you that there have been 1,168 State Senators in the history of California. Some of you joined that August number for the first time. Pursuant to Section 91.150 of the Government Code, Daniel Alvarez, Secretary of the Senate, Debbie Y Manning, the Sergeant of Arms, Neva Marie Parker, the Minute Clerk, are in their respective places to serve us today.
[00:19:55] Kevin De Leon: 
	Would the members elect and our guests beyond the rail and in the gallery please rise as we are lead in the prayer by our guest chaplain, Sister Libby Fernandez, Religious Sisters of Mary. After which please remain standing for the pledge and the presentation of the colors. The colors will be presented by the CK McClatchy High School Junior ROTC Unit. Please Sister Mary.
[00:20:08] Sister Maryland Medow: 
	Thank you. During this holy time of the year let us reflect together with God as our guiding light. Longing for peace, our world is bleak. Longing for light, our nation is dark. Let us be your flickers of change for our world. To bring good tidings to all. Longing for hope, many despair. Longing for food, many are hungry. Let us be your bread, broken for others, shared until all are fed. Longing for warmth, many are cold. Longing for shelter, many are homeless. Let us be your home, safe, welcome, and full of love. Many the gifts, many the people, many the hearts that yearn to belong. Let us be servants to one another, amen.
[00:21:29] Kevin De Leon: 
	Amen. Will the color guard please present the colors. CK McClachy High School Junior ROTC Unit, please come forward.
[00:21:45] Unidentified Speaker: 
	Forward, march. Raise up, colors.
[00:22:16] Jim Nielsen: 
	Senator Moorlach will lead the pledge.
[00:22:19] John Moorlach: 
	Thank you Mr. President. Senators of the 31st state admitted into the union and our very, very special guests, please join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. Ready, begin. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty, and justice for all.
[00:22:49] Jim Nielsen: 
	Color guard please return the colors.
[00:22:52] Unidentified Speaker: 
	Order, colors. Single file march, march.
[00:23:20] Jim Nielsen: 
	The Secretary will read the certificate of election to our duly elected State Senators.
[00:23:29] Alex Padilla: 
	I, Alex Padilla, Secretary of State of the State of California hereby certify that according to the semi-official results provided to my office by county elections officials as of December 2nd, 2016, the persons whose names are here and after set forth appear to have received the plurality of votes in their respective State Senate districts at the November 8th, 2016 general election. That opposite their respective name are the State Senate districts from which they have, as of this date, appeared to have received a plurality of the votes and the names of the county or counties comprising or forming a portion of said districts. With the name of any county entirely within or comprising the District shown in capital letters.
[00:24:11] Committee Secretary: 
	Ted Gaines, first District. Bill Dodd, third District. Cathleen Galgiani, fifth District. Steve Glazer, seventh District. Nancy Skinner, ninth District. Scott Wiener, 11th District. Jerry Hill, 13th District. Jim Beall, 15th District. Bill Monning, 17th District. Hannah-Beth Jackson, 19th District. Scott Wilk, 21st District. Mike Morrell, 23rd District. Anthony J Portantino, 25th District. Henry Stern, 27th District. Josh Newman, 29th District. Richard Roth, 31st District. Ricardo Lara, 33rd District. Steven Bradford, 35th District. John MW Moorlach, 37th District. And Tony Atkins, 39th District. In witness whereof. I hereunto set my hand and affix the great seal of the State of California. This second day of December, 2016. Alex Padilla, Secretary of State.
[00:25:14] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next order of business will be Senate Resolution Number 1 by Senator Ed Hernandez. Mr. Secretary, please read the resolution.
[00:25:26] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate Resolution 1 by Senator Hernandez, relative to hold over Senators.
[00:25:29] Kevin De Leon: 
	Mr. Hernandez, you may proceed.
[00:25:31] Ed Hernandez: 
	Thank you, Mr. President and members. SR1 would have the holdover Senators take their seats and have the Senator elects proceed to the bar to the Senate, to take their oath of office. With that, members, I respectfully ask for an aye vote.
[00:25:43] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much, Senator Hernandez. Senator Hernandez requests an aye vote. All those in favor on the resolution, please say aye. Those in opposition, please say nay. Those in favor? Those in opposition. The ayes have it. The resolution is adopted. Senators-elect, please proceed to the bar of the Senate. That is Senator-elect Atkins, Senator Jim Beall, Mr. Bradford, Mr. Dodd, Mr. Gaines, Ms Galgiani, Mr. Glazer, Mr. Hill, Ms HBJ, Mr. Lara, Mr. Morning, Mr. Moorlach, Mr. Morrell, Mr. Newman, Mr. Portantino, Mr. Roth, Ms. Skinner, Mr. Stern, Mr. Wiener, and lastly Mr. Wilk. Can you please all proceed to the well? Can I have Senators Allen, Bates, Leyva, and Mendoza. Will you please proceed to the rear of the chamber to escort the Honorable Tani Cantil-Sakauye. The Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court. Who will administer the oath of office to the brand-new senator-elects of the California State Senate? You may proceed. Thank you very much, Ms. Bates. Miss Leyva, Mr. Mendoza, and Mr. Allen, thank you very much.
[00:27:36] Patricia Bates: 
	Well, good afternoon. Congratulations to you and your families. What an impressive group. Please raise your right hand to be sworn. I, state your name. Do solemnly swear. That I will support and defend. The Constitution of the United Sates. And the Constitution of the State of California. Against all enemies. Foreign and domestic. That I will bear true faith and allegiance. To the constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of California. That I take this obligation freely. Without any mental reservation. Or purpose of evasion. And that I will well and faithfully discharge. The duties upon which I am about to enter. Congratulations. Congratulations, Senators.
[00:30:23] Kevin De Leon: 
	Senators, congratulations. If you could be so kind enough to please take your seats. Senators, congratulations. Again, if you could be so kind enough to please take your seats. For you are now officially Senators of the great State of California. Colleagues, members, yes. Members, we also have with us today two very special guests, as well. The City Attorney of the City of San Francisco. That is Mr. Dennis Herrera. Mr. Dennis Herrera. Also in the back chamber as well, behind and between these two columns, these Roman columns. We also have the District Attorney of the city and County of the great City of San Francisco. Mr. George Gaston. With that, Mr. Secretary, please call the roll of all the Senators.
[00:31:37] Committee Secretary: 
	Allen? Anderson? Atkins? Bates? Beall? Berryhill? Bradford? Camilla? De Leon? Dodd? Fuller? Gaines? Galgiani? Glazer? Hernandez? Hertzberg? Hill? Hueso? Jackson? Lara? Leyva? McGuire? Mendoza? Mitchell? Monning? Moorloch? Morrell? Newman? Nguyen? Nielsen? Pan? Portintino? Roth? Skinner? Stern? Stone? Vidak? Wieckowski? Wiener? Wilk?
[00:32:17] Kevin De Leon: 
	A quorum is present. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next order of business is Senate resolution number two, that is Senator Anthony Cannella, Senator Anthony Cannella. Secretary, please read.
[00:32:26] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate Resolution 2 by Senator Cannella, relative to the election of officers.
[00:32:30] Anthony Cannella: 
	Thank you Mr. President, members. SR 2 would elect Senator Kevin De Leon President Pro Tem of the Senate, Daniel Alvarez Secretary of the Senate, Debbie Manning as Sergeant at Arms of the Senate as our officers for the Senate for the 2017, 18 regular session. I urge an aye vote.
[00:32:49] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much. Mr. Canella. Mr. Canella requests an aye vote. All those in favor, please say aye. Those in opposition please say nay. Okay great, fantastic. I got this one right here. With that, the oath of office will be administered to the newly elected officers of the Senate by the honorable Tanya Cantil-Sakauye, again, the Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court. Will Mr. Alvarez, as well as Miss Manning, please come forward to the well.
[00:33:29] Patricia Bates: 
	I, state your name.
[00:33:30] Tammy Manning: 
	I, Tammy Manning.
[00:33:36] Patricia Bates: 
	Do solemnly swear. That I will support and defend. The Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of California. Against all enemies. Foreign and domestic. That I will bear true faith and allegiance. To the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of California. That I take this observation freely. Without any mental reservation. Or purpose of evasion. And I will well and faithfully discharge. The duties upon which I'm about to enter.
[00:34:26] Kevin De Leon: 
	Congratulations. Thank you. Mr. Danny Alvarez, congratulations on being reelected once again as Secretary of the Senate. Miss Manning, congratulations on being once elected as a Chief Sergeant of Arms of the California State Senate.

] Discussing CA_201720180SR7

[00:00:01] Patricia Bates: 
	I, state your name.
[00:00:15] Kevin De Leon: 
	I, Kevin De Leon.
[00:00:22] Patricia Bates: 
	Do solemnly swear. That I will support and defend. The Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of California. Against all enemies. Foreign and domestic. That I will bear true faith and Alligence. To the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of California. That I take this obligation freely. Without any mental reservation. Or purpose of evasion. And that I will, well and faithfully, discharge the duties. Upon which I am about to enter. Thank you.
[00:01:11] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you so very much. Thank you so very much. Friends, families and fellow Californians and I want to give another very special thank you to our Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court. Once again to our Chief Justice, thank you so very much for honoring us with your presence here today. Once again, friends it's one of life's greatest honors to stand before you. As a son with a single immigrant mother with a third grade education. As the President of our nation's finest legislative body. Of course, the power within this chamber's never been about one individual, or about 40. It's a fact about the 39 million lives outside of this building. Those who live, work, raise families, striving for a safe, healthy, hopeful future in a state admired around the world for inventing the future. We represent them. More importantly, we reflect them in this incredible legislative body. The diversity of this body, age, race, gender, bilingualism, your background, whether your last name is Wilk or you have a few more syllables, like Wieckowski. We're a living breathing testament to the idea that California is a place where people celebrate, not castigate, their differences. For Senators you only sworn, I say to you and your loved ones, felicidades. Congratulations and for those returning Senators, thank you for the historic progress that we have made, that we have created together. If anything, this past election was a powerful reaffirmation of our collective work to make California a stronger, safer, more inclusive, and prosperous state. I want to acknowledge my Republican counterpart, Jean Fuller, for incredible public service, and for her incredible friendship. We have worked so well together, we will continue to work well together. Let's give it up, please, for my Republican counter, Jean Fuller and I want to say to all Senators here today, Democrats, as well as Republicans. We are part of the same California community and I can tell you this, the election is over, thank God. Welcome Mr. Wilk, to the Senate body and I can tell to all of you here today, I could not care less which side of the aisle you sit on. Only the quality of your ideas and values that you stand on and I look forward to working with each and every one of you and helping you make sure that Californians actually achieve their dreams. For my Democratic colleagues, we know that our majority serves at the pleasure. At the pleasure of the people, and will only be super if we lead responsibly, remain fiscally prudent, and deliver a fact on our promises. Even after our legislative session of extraordinary accomplishments there is still much work to be done. Chief and perhaps most immediate among them is transportation and infrastructure. As powerful as California's economy is and it's the fifth largest economy in the world, our system doesn't work if Californians can not get to work. No matter what else we accomplish together. If we don't comprehensively address the needs of the lack of investment and affordable housing, in our chroming roads, our bridges, our parks, our water resources, it will continue to be a drag on the quality of life of our communities. In the coming weeks and the months, this institution will once again be a conveyor belt of bold ideas for California's most pressing priorities. We have much to do over the next two years. And the voters have elected the right women and the right men to do the job and yet, I can say this when the success of this session is actually ultimately measured, our most important role might be as check and balance. See, California is the last rock before the continent gives way to the ocean. We have always represented a future for restless Americans, a land of what could be. Now this body has been called to service at a pivotal and some would say, a portentous, moment in our state's and nation's history. In their wisdom, our constituents have sent us here with a very clear and overwhelming mandate to continue making California the truest embodiment of the American dream, where people of all races, religions, and backgrounds can live in safety, attend excellent schools, access public health, breathe clean air into their lungs, and contribute to one of the most powerful economies in the world. At the same time, we confront a dichotomy of democracy, unique in our history where the most overt opponents of our State of states Through public declarations appears to be the incoming head of states and although our President-elect lost a popular vote and 4 million more Californians voted for his opponents, he will be our President. We hold the highest reverence for that office regardless of whose name is on that desk, but also know, that our democratic and federal assistance were designed by our founders, to endure to be bigger, than any one election or any one executive. Many Californians, some tongue in cheek and some hand and hearts had advocated withdrawal with America no state ever succeeds by seceding. So we will be clear. California will accept the election results as we always do. California will adhere to the Constitution as we always do, but California will never appease to those who threaten to undermine our prosperity or deprive our people their most fundamental human rights. We refuse to recess, regress back to the politics of scapegoating, praying on religious, racial, and ethic hostilities, echoing the dark, divisive days of Proposition 187. We will always fight for what is right. We will always fight for our California values, in a bipartisan fashion, as we always do. Senators let me say, the hallmark of this house has always been about policy leadership emulated across the nation and renowned around the world. But this group of Senators, each and every one of you, Republicans and Democrats alike, carry the additional and urgent obligation of moral leadership. More than ever it's vital that we ensure that California continues to be America's exceptional example. A beacon of hope and opportunity in an uncertain world. That we double down on lifting people up. That we defend our people and our progress and that we continue to be a world leader on workers' rights, womens' rights, voting rights, civil rights, social justice, economic justice, climate action, environmental protection and access to healthcare and public education for everyone irrespective of who you are and where you come from. So let me conclude as I began, with a message to our constituents, the people of California, especially those who perhaps were bullied at one time, demeaned, or downsized, or told that they're dispensable because they're different. California has always been the place where you can be whoever you are and become whoever you dream of being. That's a principle which has always been bigger than politics or partisanship and there are 40, 40 exemplary Californians on this floor here today who represent both sides of the political spectrum, who I know are ready to stand up and speak out for each and every one of you. Now California has endorsed all of you here today with their votes and have entrusted each and every one of you with their future. And we will not let you down. My fellow Californians, we will not let you down by backing down, not now, not ever. I am proud of this robust bipartisan body. We always have vigorous debates all the time, but it's always carried in such a manner that's congenial and respectful. The power of dialog in debate and let the votes always carry the day with the votes and the people of the State of California. To my Republican colleagues, to my Democratic colleagues, let's get to work. Thank you very much, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, thank you. Colleagues, it is indeed an honor for me to recognize my counterpart, the leader of the Republican caucus of the California State Senate, and my very good friend, Senator Jean Fuller.
[00:11:56] Jean Fuller: 
	I would like to start by thanking all of you for bringing your good will and your love for the State of California with you today. I would also like to thank our Pro-Tem Kevin De Leon for the wonderful experience he's given all of us the last few years of his leadership and I'm looking forward to continuing that. We've been good friends, we worked on many issues together and my background too is similar. My parents brought me home from the hospital to a train car, that's what we lived in in the back of their parents' home and again, this is not about that, but is is about the fact that all of us can be whatever we can be in this state if we dedicate ourselves to helping others, to loving the state, and to debating with one another what the best policies would be. I feel that I have been so privileged to come from a dust bowl baby to here and to work with all of you today and soon I'll be saying goodbye and letting the younger ones take over and it feels really, really good because I trust all of you and this tradition that we've developed together. So today is a special day and I would like to personally welcome all of the Senators being sworn in with their family and friends. I would like to say that our shared experience as California State Senators will last us a lifetime. No one else will experience that things that we have experienced or know what it feels like to be In these chairs and so I'm starting my thoughts today with a thank you for the collegial experiences that we will all share and the rich friendships that we have developed. Just as Kevin and I have been able to develop a great friendship around educational policy and other issues through the years, each of us will have a chance to work with one another and develop a special relationship that no one else will share. I'd like to specifically recognize the newest members of our Republican caucus, Senator Scott Wilk, and congratulate our caucus members who were reelected this year, Senator Ted Gaines, Senator Mike Morrell, and Senator John Moorlach and to all of the rest of you I can't wait to get a chance to know you better and work with you and some of you I've been blessed already to have gotten to know some of your ideas and I love all of your idealism. This day also marks the beginning of our new legislative session. The next two years will present us with opportunities to address many of the challenges facing hardworking Californians and I'm looking forward to working together to help all areas of our state through the solutions that promote economic opportunity, jobs, and making California more affordable. While both sides of the aisle will find areas of agreement we will also passionately debate our ideas, but what makes this chamber so special is that we can disagree and yet we are collegial and show every member the respect they deserve because they were chosen by the people. As a member of the State of California and as a representative of our constituents we are bestowed the honor of carrying on the tradition of civility that was set before us. I look forward to continuing to work closely with the Pro-Tem and all the Senators to do that, but I look back in appreciation for the past practice and the historic tradition of stability and collegiality that we all know is the California State Senate's legacy to us and so it is a privilege to serve with all of you. As we strive, all of us in our own way, and in our unique advocacy for our unique districts, do great things for this state and thank you for helping us all be the members that can do that.
[00:16:29] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you, Madam Republican, Leader Ms. Fuller for your wonderful comments, but colleagues before I turn the gavel over to Senator Hannah-Beth Jackson, I'd like to take the point of personal privilege to introduce the 66th Speaker of the California Assembly, Mr. Speaker Emeritus, Fabian Nunez, Mr. Fabian Nunez. We also have here the mayor of the City of Berkeley as well, the honorable, Tom Bates. Mr. Tom Bates the mayor of the City of Berkeley. We also have with us in the back of the chamber, the council woman for council district number five in the City of San Jose. That is, Miss Magdalena Carrasco.
[00:17:55] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Is there anyone here who feels that they should be acknowledged while we wait for Senator De Leon to get to his desk, besides our wonderful guest Senator Allen? I was actually kidding, but obviously please proceed.
[00:18:14] Benjamin Allen: 
	I'd like to recognize a good friend of both Senator Stern and council member from the City of Malibu, we have two members from Malibu, Laura Rosenthal and Skylar Peak who are here joining us.
[00:18:15] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator Allen. I did open up the door. Senator, new Senator Portantino.
[00:18:19] Anthony Portantino: 
	Yes, and I would be remiss if I didn't introduce the great mayor of the City of Glendora, Gene Murabito who is here as well. Mayor Gene Murabito and Council Member and former mayor of Glendale, Zareh Sinanyan, is also here as well.
[00:18:35] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Pleasure to have you, sir.
[00:18:43] Anthony Portantino: 
	And I would like to take a moment of personal privilege to recognize former Republican leader, Connie Conway who is with us today.
[00:18:57] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Dodd.
[00:18:58] Anthony Portantino: 
	Yes, thank you. I would like to introduce from Solano County, Solano County supervisor, Jim Spering.
[00:19:11] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Welcome. Senator Stern.
[00:19:21] Henry Stern: 
	I want to take a point and privilege to introduce my predecessor, one of the great leaders in California State Senate history, Senator Fran Pavley.
[00:19:29] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Pavley, welcome. Senator Galgiani. One second, can we get Senator Galgiani's mic?
[00:19:37] Cathleen Galgiani: 
	I would like to take a point of privilege to introduce our former Senator and colleague, Loni Hancock.
[00:19:43] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Hancock. Wonderful to have you here. Senator Skinner and then Senator McGuire.
[00:19:55] Nancy Skinner: 
	Thank you, take a point of personal privilege. I was going to introduce Senator Hancock, but she has now been introduced, but also in the galley is from Contra Costa County, El Cerrito Council Member Gabe Quinto.
[00:20:13] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Welcome, welcome. Senator McGuire.
[00:20:23] Mike McGuire: 
	Madam President head North of the gate we are honored to have councilman from the great City of Nevado, Josh Friday here today.
[00:20:27] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Mister Friday, a pleasure. With that Senator De Leon. The next order of business is Senate resolution number 3, Mr. Secretary please read.
[00:20:37] Committee Secretary: 
	Thin to resolution number 3 by Senator De Leon relative to the election of members of the Senate Committee on rules.
[00:20:43] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator De Leon.
[00:20:44] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much, Madam President, as well as members. Senate resolution number 3 would elect Senators Berryhill, Cannella, Leyva, as well as Senator Mitchell as members of the Senate Committee on rules for the 2017-18 regular session, I urge an aye vote.
[00:21:03] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you. Senator De Leon requests an aye vote. All those in favor of the resolution, please answer by saying aye. Any opposition? The ayes have it, the resolution is adopted. The next order of business is Senate Resolution four by Senator De Leon, Mr. Secretary, please read.
[00:21:23] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate resolution four by Senator De Leon relative to the standing and rules of the Senate for the 2017-18 regular session.
[00:21:29] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator De Leon.
[00:21:30] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much Madame President as well as colleagues. Senate resolution number four contains the standing rules of this very Senate body. The rules are contained in Senate resolution number four are similar to the Senate rules at the conclusion of the 2015-16 session. Again, I respectfully ask for an aye vote.
[00:21:48] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you, Senator De Leon. Senator De Leon requests an aye vote. All those in favor of the resolution, please signal by saying aye. Any opposition? The ayes have it. The resolution is adopted. The next order of business is Senate concurrent resolution one by Senator Fuller. Mr. Secretary, please read.
[00:22:10] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate concurrent resolution one, by a Senator Fuller, relative to the selection of the legislative council of California.
[00:22:21] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Fuller.
[00:22:23] Jean Fuller: 
	President and members, SCR1 would select Diane Boyer Bine as a legislative Council for the 2017, 2018 regular session. The Senate has been well served by our Legislative Counsel under the direction of Diane Boyer-Vine, and I appreciate her professionalism and her dedication to the State of California. I urge an aye vote.
[00:22:50] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator Fuller, the resolution requires 21 votes to be adopted, with that, Mr. Secretary, please call the roll.
[00:22:58] Committee Secretary: 
	Allen? Aye. Anderson? Aye. Atkins? Aye. Bates? Aye. Beall? Aye. Berryhill? Aye. Bradford? Aye. Cannella? Aye. De Leon? Aye. Dodd? Aye. Fuller? Aye. Gaines? Galgiani? Aye. Glazer? Aye. Hernandez? Aye. Hertzberg? Aye. Hill? Aye. Hueso? Aye. Jackson? Aye. Lara? Aye. Leyva? Aye. McGuire? Aye. Mendoza? Aye. Mitchell? Aye. Morning? Aye. Moorlach? Aye. Morrell? Aye. Newman? Aye. Nguyen? Aye. Nielsen? Aye. Pan? Aye. Portantino? Aye. Roth? Aye. Skinner? Aye. Stern? Aye. Stone? Aye. Vidak? Aye. Wieckowski? Aye. Wiener? Aye. Wilk? Aye.
[00:24:10] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Ayes 40, Noes 0. The resolution is adopted. The next order of business is Senate Resolution Five by Senator Galgiani. Mr. Secretary, please read.
[00:24:21] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate Resolution 5 by Senator Galgiani, relative to notifying the Governor of the organization of the Senate.
[00:24:26] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Galgiani.
[00:24:38] Cathleen Galgiani: 
	Thank you, Madam President, members. Senate Resolution 5 would have the President pro tempore of the Senate appoint a special Committee to wait upon his excellency, the Governor, and inform him that the Senate is duly organized for the 2017, 18 regular session and is now ready to receive any communication he may have to make to this house. I respectfully ask for your aye vote.
[00:24:51] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you, Senator Galgiani. Senator Galgiani requests an aye vote. All those in favor of the resolution, please signal by saying aye.  Opposition? The ayes have it. The resolution is adopted. The President pro tem has appointed Senators Monning, Bates, Gaines, Mcguire, Mitchell and Pan to call upon the Governor. The next order of business is Senate Resolution 6 by Senator Mitchell. Mr. Secretary, please read.
[00:25:22] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate Resolution 6 by Senator Mitchell, relative to notifying the Assembly of the Organization of the Senate.
[00:25:27] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Mitchell, please proceed.
[00:25:28] Holly Mitchell: 
	Thank you, very much, Madam President and colleagues. SR six would have the President Pro-Tem of the Senate appoint a special Committee to notify the Assembly that the Senate is duly organized for the 2017, 18 regular session and is ready to proceed with the business of the great State of California.
[00:25:48] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you, Senator Mitchell. Senator Mitchell requests an aye vote. All those in favor of the resolution, please signify by saying aye. Those in opposition? Seeing none, the ayes have it, the resolution is adopted. The President pro-tem has appointed Senators Galgiani, Dodd, Berryhill, Hill, Mendoza, Wieckowski and Morrell to call on the Assembly. Colleagues, before we proceed to our next order of business, we will ask our guests who are on the Senate Floor to proceed to the Maddie Lounge, which is in this direction. So if all of our guests would proceed to the Maddie Lounge before we take up the next item, we would be most appreciative. Please note our guests in the gallery are more than welcome to stay. We are just trying to clear the floor for the next file item and people can, if it's too crowded in the Maddie Lounge, if it's getting too familiar, please feel free to stay in the back of the hall. Those of you who are in the back of the hall, if you'd like to stay there, that would be fine as well. We just want to clear the floor so that we just have our Senators on the floor for this next item. Colleagues, if we could have all the Senators on the floor please. All Senators on the Senate Floor please. Please give your attention to Senator De Leon. Senator De Leon.

] Discussing CA_201720180SR7

[00:00:32] Kevin De Leon: 
	Madam President, I request, and I vote for a WARF without reference to file to listen to Senate Resolution Seven.
[00:00:48] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	There is a motion to suspend the rules, the President Protem is asking for an aye vote. Mr. Secretary, this requires 21 votes. Mr. Secretary please call the roll.
[00:00:55] Committee Secretary: 
	Allen? Aye. Anderson? No. Adkins? Aye. Bates? No. Beall? Aye. Berryhill? No. Bradford? Aye. Cannella? De Leon? Aye. Dodd? Aye. Fuller? No. Gaines? No. Galgiani? Aye. Glazer? Aye. Hernandez? Aye. Hertzberg? Aye. Hill? Aye. Hueso? Aye. Jackson? Aye. Lara? Aye. Leyva? Aye. McGuire? Aye. Mendoza? Aye. Mitchell? Aye. Monning. Aye. Moorlach? No. Morrell? No. Newman? Aye. Nguyen?No. Nielsen? Pan? Aye. Portantino? Aye. Roth? Aye. Skinner? Aye. Stern? Aye. Stone? No. Vidak? No. Wieckowski? Aye. Wiener? Aye. Wilk? No.
[00:02:06] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Please call the absent members.
[00:02:10] Committee Secretary: 
	Canella? Nielsen?
[00:02:19] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Ayes 27. Noes 11. The Senate rules are suspended. Mr. Secretary please read the resolution.
[00:02:24] Committee Secretary: 
	Senate Resolution 7 by Senator De Leon relative to immigration.
[00:02:27] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator De Leon.
[00:02:40] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, members, Senate Resolution number 7, reaffirms our commitments to protecting and serving California's immigrant communities. With this measure we honor our American heritage by recognizing that we are and always have been a nation of immigrants. This nation was founded on the principles of freedom and opportunity as a refuge for the oppressed and the persecuted and those seeking a better life. In California, we recognize that our immigrant communities are vital to our prosperity. Undocumented Californians represent up to one-tenth of our total work force. They are hardworking, upstanding members of our society who contribute billions of dollars to our economic activity and tax revenue to our state each year. This resolution, Senate resolution number seven urges Congress and the President-elect to develop rational immigration policies, that recognize the contributions of immigrants to the nation, protect the economy, and treat immigrant families and children humanely, with a modicum of dignity and respect. Specifically, a request that the President-elect continue President Obama's deferred action for childhood arrivals programme commonly known as DACA. It denounces unjustified mass deportation plans and declares our support for comprehensive reforms to our broken immigration system. We ask this in a bipartisan fashion, we ask that the Congress of the United States, in a bipartisan fashion move forward with a comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship that again underscores the necessity of the vital contributions that immigrants make to the great State of California. Colleagues, I respectfully ask for an aye vote.
[00:04:24] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator De Leon. Please there's to be no applause. Just debate or discussion, is there debate or discussion? Senator Hueso followed by Senator Laura.
[00:04:40] Ben Hueso: 
	Thank you Madam President, the Vice Chair of the California Latino Legislative Caucus. I send in strong support of this resolution as the son of an immigrant standing in a Senate Floor full of the sons and daughters of immigrants not only to the state, but to this country I ask that we all stand in concert to up hold the values that have made this country great. As a representative of one of this country's most diverse states I think it is important that we stand together place a value on the diversity that has brought so much success to California. We stand beside every one that has made a contribution to make our state the number one economy in the United States and the fifth or sixth largest economy in the world. We are working hard to provide prosperity for all. In a community that supports inclusion, that supports of creating a strong fabric of society, of a community that supports keeping families together, a community that supports of everything that diversity of this world has to contribute to the meaningful improvement of our state. Many people in our community are afraid of what looms in the horizon and it's important that, early on, California take a position to send a message that California stands ready. To represent all the members of our community that are contributing to make California a success. Just in particular to undocumented immigrants, I want to note that as mentioned, they comprise nearly 10% of the state's workforce, contributing $130 billion annually to its Gross Domestic Product. They pay their fair share of taxes, and according to data from the Institute of Taxation and Economic Policy, undocumented immigrants in California paid over 2.2 billion in state and local taxes in 2010, including 1.8 billion in sales tax. 152.1 million in state income taxes and 302.8 million in property taxes. The Bay largely comprises some of California's largest and most dynamic industries, such as the agricultural industry, as we know.  The tourist industries in California and what would our state be without this workforce? Yet, there is fear that there can be serious damages to these families, to these members, to our state, to our economy and to the communities that we have worked so hard to forge. So, I want to thank the pro tem for moving forward this resolution and I urge the Senate to embrace this policy and send this message to Washington. That California is doing things the right way and we're very happy with the direction of our state. Thank you.
[00:08:14] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you, Senator Hueso. So, we'll go to Senator Allen and then Senator Lara. Senator Allen?
[00:08:21] Benjamin Allen: 
	Thank you, members. As the Vice-Chair of our Legislative Jewish Caucus and as the descendant of an immigrant and the great-grandson of immigrants on my other side of the family I just wanted to stand in strong support of this important resolution that reaffirms the central role that immigrants play in our nation and in our state. It's important in a moment like this that we stand united in support of immigrants, in support of diversity, and all that they contribute to our society and I strongly urge an aye vote on Sr 7.
[00:08:49] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you, Senator Allen. Senator Anderson?
[00:08:56] Joel Anderson: 
	Senators, this floor has voted time and time again unanimously to support a path to citizenship. We've never said that we want to stop adversity, we all understand that having people come to our nation, and participate in our society makes us stronger, gives us more fiber in the social fabric and that's a good thing and, we've never condoned the exploitation of somebody here whether legally or illegally. We've always believed, on this floor, I've never seen a vote, I've never seen someone stand up against human rights. In fact, we've come together each and every time, but the subtle racism of this bill like SCA5 goes too far, you see there are people in my district who've been waiting a long time to become US citizen. And they patiently waited on line and they did exactly what we told them to do, and what this resolution does it says it doesn't matter how long you've waited, it doesn't matter that you paid attention to the rules, that you followed the law, that you want to participate in our citizenship and be a good steward and citizen of our country. It says, even if you violate our sovereignty, even if you choose to start off by breaking our laws, you're every bit as important or more important and you should have priority over those who waited patiently in line. Now, I'd love for us to take up, SJA1, by our colleague from Central Valley. That's a bi-partisan effort that would bring us all together and we all could support and we could set off the right tone, but we saw in the propositions, that the people voted for Proposition 54, which adds more transparency to this floor. This resolution that came in today was put across the floor this morning. We didn't have time to sit down and talk across party lines, and say look let's change the language a little bit so we all can support it. So, we all can send a clear and balanced message to the Trump administration that we want to work together for a common goal. Now, this was a hyperpartisan move to try to put Republicans and others who want to support a path to citizen for all, for citizens who follow the law. It's to embarrass them, it's to embarrass the Trump administration. I don't see, and I know you have a super majority and I'm in the super minority, but I don't see how this is in the best interest of this body on this celebratory day, where we bring new members, and the first thing we do is a partisan bill. So, I urge that you vote no on this, that we bring up SCA or SJA, I guess it's SJA 1, so we would have a bipartisan bill that we all could support. That unites us and not divides us, I urge a no vote.

] Discussing CA_201720180SR7

[00:00:00] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Pan.
[00:00:06] Richard Pan: 
	Thank you Madam President, Senators. I am pleased to stand in strong support of Sr 7. As a son of immigrants, and I know many of you here are children of immigrants and some are even immigrants themselves. This is, I think, an extremely important statement about what California's values are and the need, really, for a fix to our very dysfunctional immigration system. That's why my good colleague mentioned that, that's why we've supported a path to citizenship because, unfortunately, right now the law, that doesn't exist and, in fact, part of our challenge is that there have been statements made that are of significant concern to our fellow residents here in California. I think that, and particularly, I think one part of the resolution I think is particularly important which has not been touched on. It's related to the DACA immigrants and I will tell you that, certainly as a pediatrician who takes care of children, you have children who were brought over through no particular, wasn't their choice or their decision, who grew up as Californians, as Americans and to talk about, well, they need to go to the back of the line or that nature really doesn't make sense because they are Americans, they grew up in America and to tell them that, well you need to go back to whatever country your parents brought you from, and tell you that, and stand in line really doesn't make sense, and frankly, actually diminishes us, the rest of us, because they are helping contribute to our communities. Now the other thing I also want to mention, certainly as a member of the API caucus is that Asian Pacific Islanders are the largest now immigrant group here in California In fact, I would point out that the Chinese Americans were actually the first illegal immigrants. Some people say the original illegal immigrants to the United States because what happened is that here in this country we had passed an unjust law banning the immigration of all Chinese and then Asians to this country, including California. So the Chinese then came to Mexico and then crossed the border into California and that's because of an unjust law that was in existence here in the United States. Fortunately our country eventually, it took a few decades, just corrected that wrong and allowed Immigrants again to come from China and from Asia and thankfully, my parents had the opportunity after World War Two to do so. And were able to come to this country. So in the absence of action at the federal level to address the problems we have in our immigration system, we do need to protect those of our fellow residents here in California who are contributing to our communities and we do need to make a statement that the people of California and this legislative body will ask and fight for them and also ask our fellow government, certainly not act in a way that would be damaging to our communities, and our state. So I urge again, an aye vote on SR 7 thank you.
[00:03:50] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you very much. Senator Mitchell.
[00:03:55] Holly Mitchell: 
	Thank you very much Madam President and let me add this take a brief moment to welcome all of my new colleagues to the red carpet and I would argue that today is the perfect day. The absolute most appropriate day as we all begin our collective experiences serving the people of the great State of California for the 2017-2018 legislative session that this is indeed the day that we have thorough debate and discussion on the issue that has indeed become the elephant in the living room of our nation. Having served in this body now for two, three years, I've had the opportunity to hear on numerous occasions, as a Budget Committee member, policy Committee Member, the issue around DACA, and I've heard directly from the young people who are impacted by that program. Because of that experience because of my belief in their future and my belief in the responsibility we as a state owe to that population of young people, I'm proud to stand in support of SER7, but most importantly, wanted to say that given the critical nature of these issues contained in this resolution, and their impact on the State of California, today is the day, colleagues, newly elected and those of us who are returning, to put our stake in the sand. To communicate our message, our belief system as a body to the incoming administration with regard to our belief in Doca and the related programs. I stand in support of SCR 7, SR 7.
[00:05:26] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator Mitchell. Senator Hertzberg.
[00:05:33] Robert Hertzberg: 
	Thank you very much. Madam President, I wasn't going to speak, but I do want to address the point that was raised about partisanship, because I think it's important and I think the Senator from San Diego that raised his point, his important message, but I just want to say this, that I think that it would be imprudent not to recognize, Madam President, the sensitivities, for whatever reasons, without regard to partisanship, that occurred as a result of the Presidential contest. The effect of that at the deepest human level was fear. Was it rational? Are these policies going to be implemented or not? Who knows? But what you have are a whole host of people without resources Without sophistication. Without access to lawyers and government and all of the stuff that you do to defend yourself that are worried and so I think on a bipartisan basis, if you look at this, there's no names mentioned. I looked at it very closely. I was thinking about whether or not to do it for those very reasons because I think particularly both on this day, but also on the nature of this issue is that it really is something that sends a message to so many people in California that we're going to fight for you, that we think about you, that there are people in power that you've never met in your life that care and are sensitive to who you are and what's going on. That's the message and that is a bipartisan message and so I just stand here today because I think for all of us irrespective of party this is such an important contextual message to send in a thoughtful gracious and elegant way. That's why I'm supporting it, that's why I signed onto this and that's why I think everybody today unanimously should stick together and make the statement with that level of respect and sensitivity for the human condition.
[00:07:40] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator Hertzberg. Senator Beall.
[00:07:45] Jim Beall: 
	Last year, members, I had a form on wage theft in my district and I invited our community to attend the forum. I was astounded by the hundreds and hundreds of people that showed up, and one by one told of the exploitation, people working on literally pennies on the hour in terms of wages. I also heard housing discrimination, employment discrimination and it was all based on the fact that people that have undocumented status can be exploited and I think we have to talk about that from a moral context. People that have undocumented status are vulnerable to being exploited and the way they're exploited in is some of the basic American rights that we have for fair housing, non-discrimination, the Constitution of the United States and the State of California. And the question is then become on a moral context and a political context, it's not a partisan issue, but shall we let people be exploited? And what we claim our Constitution says in terms of civil rights, will we allow people to be exploited and cheated to such an extent that they're paid pennies on the dollar, that they're exploited in terms of their housing, exploited in all manners of our society in California or do we want to see changes in the laws that end that exploitation? That create an environment where we can have liberty and justice for all? And I urge support of this resolution. To me, I will never stand for the status quo because I think it's a cancer on our society in California. It's a cancer, this whole thing where we can say that we believe in liberty and justice for all and we can believe in all those civil rights laws that we all believe in, yet we do not want to deal with that particular issue when it comes to people that are undocumented immigrants and I think we have to stand for our Constitution, we have to stand for our moral values. Please let's get together and all support this resolution. I think all the people of our state deserve this and let them know what you stand for.
[00:10:24] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator Beall. Senator Stone.
[00:10:30] Jeff Stone: 
	Thank you Madam President. First I want to welcome the new members to this incredible institution and I regret today that it should be a time of celebration when we bring people together, and our first piece of business is going to be one that is going to be rather divisive. During the presidential campaign, a few things were highlighted, one of them was law and order and I'm also a product of a family that had immigrants that came over from Poland, came over from Russia, came from Canada and this presidential election touched a nerve across this country. I'll call them the forgotten souls of this country that felt that their voice hasn't been heard and were inspired by our president-elect and brought millions of people who never registered to vote to actually come out and vote. I can't support the resolution because I can't support sanctuary cities. How many more Kate Steinles of the world are we going to have? Why is there nothing in this resolution that criticizes the President of the United States, Obama, who has probably deported more citizens out of this country than any other President in our history and yet we're already criticizing a President who hasn't even taken the oath of office yet. My friends, this President is going to control a lot of federal funding that flows into this state and I think that approving this type of a resolution, before he even takes the office, is going to be a blunder. It's going to be very critical of a man that was duly elected President of the United States. That could put this state in financial harm, in financial jeopardy, if the existing funds that come through our state coffers suddenly cease. I would prefer to work on a resolution that is in the spirit of the Proposition we just passed that says that things must be 72 hours in print, to bring people together, to bring Republicans and Democrats together with a common theme that we value immigrants in our country. We value immigrants in the State of California. I certainly value them in my county, Riverside. We have a strong agricultural county. A service industry that depends on their great work and dedication. So I hope that we try to work harder, to have real debate on this floor, to bring people together and to compromise in the spirit of congeniality that we have always carried as a tradition on this Senate Floor. For those reasons, my fellow colleagues, I recommend a no vote.
[00:13:25] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Morrell.
[00:13:27] Mike Morrell: 
	Senator Morrell, thank you. It's good to be back, and it's good to see all of you guys today. A lot of good things I read in that resolution from our Senator, thank you very much, but a couple of the comments on the floor I just don't want to get past us. They talked about, one of my friends from San Jose talked about constitutionalism and what all that means. Going back to the actual immigration policies, America's the first nation not founded by a race, nor was it founded by territories. It was founded by immigrants, but there was only one type of person that was supposed to be here, and that was an American person and when Lincoln said it's Americanists, the glue that holds us together, are people having a thorough knowledge of the United States Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and the Declaration of Independence. He said that's the electric cord which binds us together and so some of the things that are said here today are not constitutional, we should stick to that, and that's why we have laws, the rule of laws and we don't want to usurp those rule of laws as our President has. Not going to pick on him today because he only has a few more weeks to go out, but I think we have to restore that rule of law and have orderly immigration and so I don't want to be particularly picking on the President this time and so I just wanted to speak my piece, and remind everybody that I think as Americans we welcome people who want to come here. I do. I welcome people who want to come to United States, but I want those people who are going to pledge their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor to our country, and our fellow countrymen and not everybody who comes here wants to do that. So there's gotta be a process that doesn't overwhelm us but one that is orderly, and that they understand that they're willing to pledge everything for this country because it's such a wonderful country. Thank you.
[00:15:29] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Lara.
[00:15:33] Ricardo Lara: 
	Thank you Madam President and members. I want to commend first of all our pro-tem for bringing this timely resolution to our chamber and to our floor. As hundreds of thousands of immigrants in California are honestly scared and are looking to us for some sort of hope, some [FOREIGN], that they are going to be able to be okay in this country and I also stand here as a proud anchor baby. As somebody who came, whose both parents came here illegally. They were undocumented immigrants, but this is what happens when people are hungry. This is what happens when people do not have a future. They sacrifice everything to come to this amazing country of ours. And I've always said this, and I'm so proud, that I am the proud son of an immigrant seamstress and an immigrant farm worker that now serves in the beautiful State of California, but I also want to be unequivocal, members, that if anyone tries to undermine the progress we have made in California to incorporate our immigrant communities. We should be proud of the fact that now hundreds of thousands of undocumented Children Now have access to full scope medical. Members we made that happen here and I want to be very resolute that if anyone, any Congress or incoming administration wants to dissolve the work that we have done in this great state. We are going to fight you in this Legislator. We are going to fight you in our courts and yes, we're going to fight you in the streets. We're going to organize and we're going to mobilize to ensure that we protect our most vulnerable Californians and members, for those of us that have immigrant parents or knew immigrants to this country, that come from nothing. The fight is real, the fight is real every day so we're used to fighting. We're used to coalescing and bonding together to protect ourselves, and that is what we're going to do. This is what my parents taught me, to respect everyone but when we are attacked we have to fight back and many people in this state are looking towards us to ensure that we protect the safe parts that we have put in this state to incorporate every Californian regardless of your immigration status. And so I'm proud to stand here as the son of immigrants, as a proud Californian, as a proud American, to declare that we are going to fight, we are not going to sit here, now is the time to roll up our sleeves, unite on behalf of our most vulnerable Californian members. I respectfully ask for your aye vote.
[00:18:22] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Morrell, you want to speak one more time?
[00:18:29] Mike Morrell: 
	Yeah, thank you very much.
[00:18:30] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Question of my friend over here from LA.
[00:18:38] Mike Morrell: 
	Would you accept the question, Senator Lara?
[00:18:53] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Lara, you had some threatening things you said. I just would like some clear communication. You used the word you're going to fight three times, and particularly you're going to fight in the streets. That doesn't sound like something that should be said in a spotty. Could you explain to me what your definition is of that?Do you mean physically or are you with guns, what are you speaking on sir? Excuse me, excuse me, Senator Morrell, let's keep this down. Excuse me, let's let Senator Lara respond and let's not create any further inflammation. He's going to answer your question, but let's not create any insightful debate here. Senator Lara, please answer the question.
[00:19:18] Ricardo Lara: 
	Yes, as I said, we're going to fight in the streets by organizing our community to protect themselves. That's exactly what I said and that's exactly what we're going to do if anyone tries to undermine the progress we've made in California.
[00:19:31] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Okay, Senator Moorlach.
[00:19:35] John Moorlach: 
	Thank you Madam President, welcome back.
[00:19:40] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	It's always a pleasure.
[00:19:48] John Moorlach: 
	Nice way to start our session so colleagues I happen to be an immigrant. As our President protium is kind enough to remind me from time to time, I'm really blessed. I immigrated with my folks in 1960 from the Netherlands and we had to wait a long time to get our formation and we went to the process and we're here. When it comes to immigration I really appreciate this resolution and I understand what it's trying to do. I just, I'm just having trouble with some of the language and that's where I'd like to speak if we're debating. I think the Federal Government has really let the State of California and other border states down. I think this state has done an incredible job of huddling the masses. We're providing education, we're providing health care. We're even giving them driver's licenses and I see that our Secretary of State is here, we're even given them voter registration forms, but the federal government and what it may do and what it will do is pure conjecture at this point and so we're reacting to what we think might be coming and I don't know if that's the right approach. I think cooler heads should prevail. I'm not comfortable with saying we will fight, although I understand it, but I think we need to work with this administration. I think we need to get professional. I think we need to get in front of it. I think we need to build delegation. I think we need to do what we can to reach out in Basadorly. We need to tell them that whatever is done, you've gotta fix your own mistakes first and then we've gotta do what's proper and we have to do it in a humane manner. We should be collaborative. I don't think defiance is the right approach. That's the tone I'm proceeding. It may be good showmanship but it's poor leadership, but we need to lead at this time for those in our state. So colleagues, let's show the nation how we assimilate. Let's work together, let's be collaborative. Let's request some grace and compassion on this critical issue for our state and the rest of the nation and until there's an amendment, I'm uncomfortable with the resolution, but I duly respect what's behind it but I think we can do a little better. I urge a no vote, thank you Madam President.
[00:22:19] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Any further debate or discussion? Senator Fuller.
[00:22:24] Jean Fuller: 
	I just would sort of like to say this was a time for all us to remember we're celebrating. This is a time for all of us to remember that we're starting anew together. This is a time that generally we have enjoyed our friends and the expectation because there's no time to process things before this because this is sort of the first day we get together because there's been no session. That perhaps this is a little premature for all of us to try to be bi-partisan and come to consensus because consensus takes time, it takes discussion and while it is true we know your beliefs and you know our beliefs, I think we all in here want to fix this problem. I think we've though it was going to be fixed in 2008, yet it wasn't and now we're here and it's going to be more difficult than ever before and it's more controversial and more complex than ever before. So, I, today, would like to clarify my position, so you will know how I feel about this. I, today, think that because we haven't had the time to process because we haven't had the consensus, time to build consensus, and because policy direction is maybe changing. Maybe it's going another way and that adds new complexities to what we, as a group, need to do to attack those issues. If it's to be a bipartisan effort, we need to give ourselves those tools. Maybe it would be wise for us to think about giving ourselves a little bit of a gift of time, a little bit of space. So today I support the efforts that we pass together in the past and by partisan support of SJR2 Vidak 2015 and SJR8 Correa 2014, I say let's build on that spirit. Unfortunately, today I will fold my vote until we have the time to build on that spirit in the future and to actually see, the policy that comes out of Washington to see if it changes to see if what the facts are that we will be debating because I hate for us to argue over our fears, thank you.
[00:24:56] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Senator Wiener.
[00:25:00] Scott Wiener: 
	Thank you Madam President. Colleagues, first of all, let me say what a deep honor it is to be a member of this body and to serve with each of you on both sides of the isle, and I look forward to working together. I'll be honest, I was not intending to speak today. I was going to subscribe to the mantra that is, as a new member, I should be quite for awhile and I had every intent to do that until indirectly my great City of San Francisco's name was taken in vain due to our terrible tragedy that happened there, a tragedy that was used to demonize immigrant communities. Around the country despite the fact that we know that our immigrant communities have lower rates of crime than other communities do, despite the fact that our immigrant communities make us stronger not weaker. I'll be honest, that I really do believe that this resolution is highly timely. I, until a few minutes ago, was a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and in local government, when people don't know where to go, they email or contact their local elected official and in the days after this election, the number of emails and Facebook messages I received, and people stopping me on the street. People I did not even know, were undocumented. Saying to me I am scared and I do not know what to do. I don't know what's going to happen to my family. I don't know what's going to happen to me. It was just extraordinary to me, people I did not even know that either they were undocumented or someone in their family was undocumented or they had employees. Who are undocumented, and it is absolutely the right time for this body, for this legislator to step forward and to say, if you are going to come for our immigrant communities, you're going to come through us first and so I will proudly support this resolution.
[00:27:00] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you. Senator Anderson, one more time.
[00:27:03] Joel Anderson: 
	I have a quick question of the author please?
[00:27:22] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Will you accept the question without objection?
[00:27:27] Joel Anderson: 
	So we know that the new President won't take his oath till January 20th. We know that we come back to the Legislature in January. So that gives us a window of opportunity. Nothing's going to happen before the 20th. Would you consider withdrawing this motion and allowing us to work together in a bipartisan manner? Because we all recognize that this is a very important subject and that we want to send a clear signal that citizens of California should not be scared, should not worry that we're not going to protect them, that we're not going to work on their behalf and we've come together time and time again when it's come to human rights. There's never in the 10 years I've been elected to the Legislature has there ever been a vote against a human rights bill. No matter who the author was nobody every voted against him. We have voted time and time again over the last three, four years on bills talking about a path to citizenship that have been offered by Dems and Republicans.  So I ask on you today to consider including all of us in this debate instead of dropping the resolution and forcing us to vote on it. When not one voice on this floor said that you're on the wrong path. They just simply didn't like the language. So I'm asking that you include us in your tent and allow us to be part of the solution. By withdrawing today instead of forcing it down our throats and forcing a vote that's going to have some no votes that's going to give more fear to those in San Francisco and other places because they're going to believe that there are members of this floor that want to hold people down. There's nobody on this floor that I'm aware of, that wants to hold people down, that wants to devalue what they bring to our community. We all want to root for those people and send a clear signal. So allow us please Mr. President Potam to be part of the solution with you, and don't deny us that opportunity. Please consider tabling this and allowing us to work together. We have those first two weeks, three weeks in January to really pound this out, and you'll have my commitment, and my pledge and I think if you were to ask for a show of hands, there's not a Republican that wouldn't raise his hand. So that's my request, and my question to you. Will you accept that as a potential answer?
[00:29:41] Kevin De Leon: 
	Thank you very much Madam President, and I want to be careful I don't get into a colloquy right now with the fine gentleman from San Diego. county. I would ask that those who perhaps are not supportive of this measure or perhaps have the reservation with some measure. I would invite them to join us in an informed and support for this measure. It is December 5th and I do respect our Republican leader, Ms. Fuller and I do want to recognize here as well to for the rape congenial debate in that we've had on her. Trust me colleagues, those who haven't been here for quite a long time there was a time here then a debate on this issue we would have books and laptops lying from left to right and right to left. And heated passion arguments but some of on both sides of you all that go perhaps a little too far, but I want to thank our fine and Republican leader for statesmanship of this republican caucus, my colleagues, but this is a timely issue. The reason why I say this is I want to underscore a point that the Senator for Los Angeles had made a few moments ago. Is that for the first time in history, we sense great panic, anxiety among many communities throughout California, but for the very first time when you see a five year old child, a six year old child, a seven year old, an eight year old child in tears, broken because they're fearful, not to be part of some rather factual. They're broken, because they fear an individual who will occupy the most powerful position on planet Earth, that they're deeply concerned and worried. Anxiety, that perhaps when they come back from school, their mother may not be there or perhaps when they are being drop off at school or being rushed to the public hospital emergency room at the clinic, that someone may be waiting for him or her and this is real, it's not passion show, it's factual. We've taken pains, when you read Senate Resolution number seven, not to be partisan, but rather factual to be very clear and I would invite my colleagues, I understand some of my colleagues may have concerns about this resolution. I would probably beg to differ and say that, no matter how perfect it may be, I don't believe this would be a unanimous vote, but that's okay, because in a thriving democracy that is the United States of America and California, the most diverse mosaic on planet earth, we don't have to walk together lockstep, in unison together. I appreciate my colleague's perspective and viewpoints from Orange County. I jokingly say with much affection and respect, the Dutchman, you know when he came here with those wooden clogs, I knew he wasn't from America, as soon as I saw that, you know and they say this with much affection that he comes here to America and California and to Orange County. Janet Nguyen, excuse me apologize, Madame President, our fine colleague from Orange County. Just amazing contributors to the body politic of who we are as Californians. Irrespective if you're a Republican or a Democrat. Or immigrants from Detroit, Michigan who come here to California and contribute to the wonderful cultural life of who we are. Spending time together in Mexico City and elsewhere as we did. Really understanding the political nuances of that country. The push, pull migration factors to the United States, but something is real. It's happening right now, as we speak. January 20th can't wait. This resolution will be delivered to the Congress of the United States. Mr. Paul Ryan, as well as Nancy Pelosi, Mitch McConnell, as well as the incoming leader of the Senate, Charles Schumer, as well as the President-elect. It'll be on his desk waiting come January 20th. I hope it's on his desk and I hope he reads it and I hope he understands that California is a willing partner. We're willing to find common ground, but we will protect and defend the values of this state and most importantly its human capital, its citizens. We have no other choice as Democrats as well as Republicans. This is a wonderful debate to kick off December 5th. It is a celebratory day that we will continue to celebrate the election and re-election of the newest members as well as the returning members coming back here today. This is an important issue that we must take head-on. We cannot deviate from this course. Lastly I would say is this, and again, I appreciate this bipartisan dialogue, debate that we're having here today. Lastly, any political vendetta, retribution against the fifth largest economy on planet earth, $2.44 trillion GDP, 13% of America's economy, would help undermine America's economy because we are the economic engine that drives this nation. So anyone who doesn't like a position we take, who says all of a sudden I'll have a political vendetta and I'll come after you and I'll send federal agents for you that withhold healthcare for young children and senior citizens, and their lunches. We've gotta think about that because that's what I heard today too. One thing that's more powerful than funding formulas and dollars and laws are values. Values that we adhere to as Californians, Democrats, Republicans and those that are agnostic all together and that's why we stand together. I believe in unison even if it's not going to be a unanimous vote today. Again, I want to thank the Republican leader today for a congenial vote. Colleagues I respectfully ask for an aye vote.
[00:35:52] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator De Leon, all debate having ceased, Mr. Secretary please call the roll.
[00:35:57] Committee Secretary: 
	Allen? Aye. Anderson? No. Atkins? Aye. Bates? Beall? Aye. Berryhill? Bradford? Aye. Cannella? De Leon? Aye. Dodd? Aye. Fuller? Gaines? Galgiani? Aye. Glazer? Aye. Hernandez? Aye. Hertzberg? Aye. Hill? Aye. Hueso? Aye. Jackson? Aye. Lara? Aye. Leyva? Aye. McGuire? Aye. Aye, Mendoza? Aye. Aye, Mitchell? Aye. Monning? Aye. Moorlach? Morrell? No. Newman? Aye. Nguyen? Nielsen? Pan? Aye. Portantino? Aye. Roth? Aye. Skinner? Aye. Stern? Aye. Stone? No. Vidak? Wieckowski? Aye. Wiener? Aye. Wilk?
[00:37:10] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Ayes 27, noes 3. The resolution is adopted. Please, folks.
[00:37:18] Kevin De Leon: 
	Madam President, a point of personal privilege if I could be so kind. If I could introduce currently the member of Congress for the 34th congressional district of the United States of America. It is my personal privilege because he is my congressman today. He is a former member of this legislative body specifically the green carpet, the California State Assembly. And today he is also the Attorney General designee of the great State of California. It's my honor and privilege to introduce our friend, Mr. Attorney General designee, Xavier Becerra.
[00:37:56] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Welcome to our body. Welcome to you. I'm sure we'll be seeing more of you in the days and weeks to come. Pleasure having you here. Senator Fuller?
[00:38:20] Jean Fuller: 
	I would also like to add my welcome to our Senate chambers, thank you.
[00:38:27] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you. Senator Anderson for what purpose?
[00:38:30] Joel Anderson: 
	I rise to WARF SJR one. So we all may have a vote on a bipartisan immigration resolution.
[00:38:38] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	You are requesting then to suspend the Senate rules, is that correct?
[00:38:42] Joel Anderson: 
	That's correct.
[00:38:43] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	All right. Senator Anderson is requesting an aye vote to suspend the Senate rules. Senator Monning. Monning is requesting a no vote. Mr. Secretary, please call the roll.
[00:38:55] Committee Secretary: 
	Allen? No. Anderson? Aye. Atkins? No. Bates? Aye. Beall? No. Berryhill? Aye. Bradford? No. Aye. De Leon? Aye.  Dodd? No. Fuller? Aye. Gaines? Aye. Galgiani? Glazer? No. Hernandez? No. Hertzberg? No. Hill? No. Hueso? No. Jackson? No. Lara? No. Leyva? No. Mcguire? No. Mendoza? No. Mitchell? No. Monning? No. Moorlach? Aye. Morrell? Aye. Newman? No. Nguyen? Aye. Nielsen? Aye. Pan? No. Portantino? No. Roth? No. Skinner? No. Stern? No. Stone? Aye. Vidak? Aye. Wieckowski? No. Wiener? No. Wilk? Aye.
[00:40:36] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Ayes 13. Colleagues? We're almost done. Ayes 13, nos 26. The motion fails. We now go to, any further business that might come forward. This is the time to adjourn in memory, if there are any. There are no governor's appointments. But are there any adjourns in memory? Senator Moorlach?
[00:41:00] John Moorlach: 
	Thank you, Madam Chair. Last week Orange County lost-
[00:41:03] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Colleagues, if we could, we're, please give attention to Senator Moorlach. We are under adjourned in memory.
[00:41:10] John Moorlach: 
	Last week Orange County lost Dr. Samuel Lee. Dr. Samuel Lee was an Olympic diver, won the gold sets, incredible new, broke through new ground as a Korean-American in Orange County.  His story is replete with being turned down for housing and other issues, but he broke through those barriers and became an incredible asset to the community. He was just had a fun personality. He died at the age of 96. And I just want to wish our condolences to his family at this time of loss and adjourn in his memory. Thank you, Madam President.
[00:41:49] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you, Senator Moorlach. Indeed a great man. And we'll cherish his memory and his great accomplishments. Senator Allen, for what purpose, sir?
[00:41:59] Benjamin Allen: 
	To adjourn in memory.
[00:42:00] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Without objection.
[00:42:01] Benjamin Allen: 
	My mother's best friend lost her son over the break. He died in a car accident. His baby girl was in the car with them at the time, fortunately survived. But it was a terrible, terrible loss. His name was Sammy Zalin and he was a friend and his loss if very deeply felt in his family, with my mother and with our community. And it is yet another reminder of the dangers on the roads. He was hit by another driver, who wasn't paying attention. And we've now lost him. He was in his 30s with a kid, and I just wanted to adjourn in his memory.
[00:42:42] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator Allen and if you would bring his name forward, we'll try to properly memorialize that for you. Any other adjourning memories, Senator Skinner? Colleagues, if we could just, we're almost done, Senator Skinner, let's give her our attention please.
[00:42:56] Nancy Skinner: 
	Thank you, members. I want to thank our Pro Tem for acknowledging the tragedy in Oakland. I will do a formal adjourn in memory, when we come back into session. Because very unfortunately, we do not yet know the number of victims from that fire as of yet. The authorities are still combing the building which was in such fragile shape, we could not risk the loss of life of our firefighters and sheriffs. So they have still not even determined the full extent of the tragedy of that Oakland fire. But I thank the Pro Tem for acknowledging Oakland's tragedy and the victims that we know of so far. And I will do a formal adjourn in memory in January, thank you.
[00:43:41] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Indeed, thank you Senator Skinner. I believe it's a safe statement that all our hearts go out to the tragedy and to the lives that were unnecessarily lost. And let's hope the count stops but, we will certainly recommit to this issue in January. Senator Galgiani, for what purpose?
[00:44:01] Cathleen Galgiani: 
	Thank you. I arise to adjourn in memory of Dennis Wallace, a 20 year veteran of the Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department, who was killed in the line of duty on Sunday, November 13th. He leaves behind a wife and small children and I would ask that we remember him this day.
[00:44:17] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Certainly, and please extend our condolences to his family and if you will bring his name forward, we will properly memorialize it in the record. Anything else? Any other further adjourns in the memory? Seeing none, Senator De Leon. Senator De Leon, the desk is clear. Colleagues? Senator De Leon?
[00:44:52] Kevin De Leon: 
	Madame President and colleagues, have a wonderful Monday evening with family and loved ones. Have a wonderful holidays for the rest of December. We will reconvene this legislative body, this State Senate specifically, on January 4th at 2:00 PM. 2:00 pm January fourth. Again, have a wonderful happy holidays, and a happy new year, and I'm sure we'll all be in touch with each other during the meantime. Thank you, Madam President.
[00:45:20] Hannah-Beth Jackson: 
	Thank you Senator De Leon and colleagues. The desk will remain open until the hour of 3:30pm for the introduction of bills. The Senate will stand in recess until Wednesday, January 4th, at 2:00pm. The Senate is now in recess.