
] Discussion of CA Assembly Standing Committee on Education held on 2017-03-15
] printing transcript: 

] Discussing CA_201720180AB10

[Introduction]
[00:09:25] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	She'll be presenting AB 10, file item number one.

[Presentation]
[00:09:29] Cristina Garcia: 
	Thank you. Good afternoon Chair and members. I'm here presenting AB 10 would require vital menstrual products, pads, and tampons to be provided in school, colleges, shelters throughout the state. Menstrual products are a basic necessity similar to toilet paper. As early as the fourth grade young girls get their period and may not be prepared nor understand the natural changes of their bodies many of these young girls end up missing school three to five days a month on a regular basis, because they lack basic access to these products. No young girl should ever have to miss school because she does not have access to these basic health needs. For some young girls, access to these products is an additional barrier to their education. It's also loss of funding for school due to absence system that it can be entirely preventable. Being homeless is also difficult and when you're out there menstruating you don't have access to tampons or pads. Oftentimes these homeless women are resorting to newspapers and other things that lead to infections and a lot of them visiting our urgent and emergency rooms. I will cut my comments short but there was a pilot program in the City of New York last year where 10 schools adopted this program and attendance increased by 2.44% overall. If you think about that and you think about half the population there being girls. That's close to a 5% increase amongst our female students. With me testifying today, I have Kenneth and I'm going to ... Vuylsteke, the Chairman of Transonix and Hope's Home which market feminine products. And I also have Harold Spikes, a father of four daughters.

[ExpertTestimony]
[00:11:08] Harold Spikes: 
	Okay, thank you for having me hear today to speak upon AB 10 bill. My name is Harold Spikes and I'm from Parents Voices of Oakland. But let me give you a little background about myself. In 2000, my wife died and I had to raise four young girls. Neither one was on administration. And when my oldest daughter, her friend came to visit her, she was embarrassed and she was ashamed, because I was a man, and she didn't know how to approach her father.  But I sat her down, I explained to her this is what young girls go through, when they reach a certain age. So that was the first time that I was introduced to feminine hygiene and products and stuff. But now let me tell you about the second part of my adventure. I went to work for the Unified School District of Berkley as a janitor. And through the course of doing my choirs and stuff, my everyday duties, I walked into the facilities of young ladies restroom and there was a young lady coming out the stall, and the look on her face took me back to the same look I saw on my daughter's face.  So I knew that look. So I kind of brushed it off and I continue to go ahead and clean up the restroom. And as cleaning up, I looked through the garbage and I was looking at the garbage. And I'm seeing things that no child have to go through. No child should have to go through to be embarrassed like that. They used did use substance that's not appropriate for the things that they have to use. So my daughters, they was going through the Unified School District of Berkeley School District. So I talked to them about things, and they was telling me, it costs, the dispensers that give you the products the cost was too high for, yet some young girls they couldn't afford it. So they had to supplement it by using other things, like she said causes diseases and causes things that they don't have to go through. So I'm just here to explain some of the things that I experienced, and some of the things that young girls go through and they don't need to go through that because every child needs to stay in school not to be embarrassed, not to be ashamed, not to miss education, not to miss the lessons. So, in short, thank you for having me here, and my name is Harold Spikes
[00:13:51] Cristina Garcia: 
	Thank you, Harold.
[00:13:53] Kenneth Vuylsteke: 
	Thank you. My name is Ken Vuylsteke, and I'm the Chairman of the Transonic Company which operates a business called HOSPECO. HOSPECO stands for Hospital Specialty Company, and we've been in the In the manufacture and distribution of feminine hygiene products and assorted accessories for the last 70 years. In 2013, we began an effort to modernize and bring up-to-date our dispensers. And through that work, we were introduced to a lady by the name of Miss Nancy Kramer. Nancy has founded a movement similar to breast cancer awareness movement to provide bathroom Equality. And through our associatIon with Nancy we introduce to the City Council person Copeland in New York City who was interested in In sponsoring legislation in New York to make these products available, no charge, on a free basis. We provided products for high schools in dispensers, in order to develop data, and it was just amazing to hear some of the young ladies talk about what a difference it made that these products were supplied, that they didn't have to go home, they didn't have to go to the nurse, they didn't have to ask for a friend, they weren't embarrassed, and as the Assembly person mentioned through that data it increased grades and increased attendance. So, it was a great success the legislation was introduce to New York in the spring of 2015 and on July 22 Mayor De Blasio sign the legislation one side note, he told me that after he looked at the legislation he went home and ask his wife if he should sign this and she gave him a one word answer, and that answer was yesterday. One of the concerns that has been expressed about the dispensers is that people would pilfer, product would take more than they needed. And so we went to work and developed a delay mechanism on our dispensers and those dispensers will be in the market within the next 30 days. So there is a set delay of 25 seconds between the dispenses. We also made them ADA compliant. So their push button and they operate on a free basis.

[PublicComments]
[00:16:36] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	Thank you. Others in support, please come forward, state your name, affiliation, and position on the bill, only please.
[00:16:43] Cindy Castillo: 
	Cindy Castillo with the Faculty Association of California Community Colleges, in strong support.
[00:16:50] Elysia Lewis: 
	Elysia Lewis on behalf of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists of district nine. Proud support.
[00:17:00] Gregory Cramer: 
	Mister Chair and members, Gregory Cramer with Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California in strong support.
[00:17:08] Kathy Sher: 
	Kathy Sher on behalf of the ACLU of California in strong support.
[00:17:14] Mary Moyle: 
	Mary Moyle with the CSSU and we don't have an official position yet but we look forward to working with the author.
[00:17:23] Annie Lasko: 
	Annie Lasko from Conscious Period in strong support.
[00:17:28] Margo Lange: 
	Margo Lange from Conscious Period in strong support.
[00:17:32] Adriana Morro: 
	Hi, good afternoon, Adriana Morro with the Latino Coalition for a Healthy California and here in strong support.
[00:17:40] Kimberly Amehet: 
	Hi, I'm Kimberly Amehet, this is for the Latino Coalition for a Healthy California and a second year student at Sac State and I support.
[00:17:49] Sarah Hudgenson: 
	My name is Sarah Hudgenson and I work for Act for Women and Girls in Tulare County and I support this bill.
[00:17:56] Lucia Gonzalez: 
	My name is Lucia Gonzalez and I'm a part of Act for Women and Girls, I support this bill.
[00:18:02] Saleem Moinuddin: 
	Saleem Moinuddin on behalf of the student senate for California Community Colleges, I show strong support.
[00:18:11] Sheryl Fabio: 
	Sheryl Fabio, I'm with Parents Voices Oakland in Oaklnd California and the organization and our parents are in strong support.
[00:18:21] Genesis Gonzalez: 
	I'm Genesis Gonzalez for Act for Women and Girls and I strongly support this.
[00:18:28] Stephanie Doe: 
	Hello, my name is Stephanie and I am from Woodlake California, and I strongly support this bill.
[00:18:36] Myla Doe: 
	Hi, my name is Myla ... , I'm from Tulare County and I'm from the Act Organization, and I strongly support this bill.
[00:18:45] Freddie Estrada: 
	My name is Freddie Estrada, I'm from Act for Women and Girls, and I support this bill.
[00:18:52] Marissa Marietta: 
	Hello I'm Marissa Marietta from Woodland, California with the Acts for Women and Girls, and I am strongly for this bill.
[00:19:03] Elliot Andrade: 
	I'm Elliot Andrade from Act for Women and Girls in Tulare County and I support this bill.
[00:19:08] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	All right, thank you. Any others in support? Seeing no others in support, any opposition to the bill? Seeing no opposition, any comments from the Committee Members? Moved and Seconded, Mr. Kiley.

[LegislatorDiscussion]
[00:19:21] Kevin Kiley: 
	Thank you Mr Chair, and thank you Assemblywoman for your dedication to this issue, which I agree with you is a very important one. I just wanted to ask a question about the scope of the legislation and why some of the choices that have been made in the present form of the bill were made, and whether you might be open to perhaps some changes moving forward.
[00:19:49] Cristina Garcia: 
	Specifically what type of changes?
[00:19:51] Kevin Kiley: 
	Three in particular. Number one, you, I think, very correctly note that the sort of hardships that you describe have a particular impact on students living in poverty, coming from well income families. Yet this bill would require, I believe, every school in the state, regardless of whether it's in an underserved area, it's an underserved school, or the students themselves come from low income families to provide these products. So that's the first, is whether it would make sense to do any sort of means testing with this. The second is that this applies to both public and private schools, so why not limit it just to the public education system? But rather also include this mandate on private schools. And then third, why have we decided to extend this to colleges and universities rather than just the K-12 system? Thanks very much.
[00:20:48] Cristina Garcia: 
	Okay. On the question about narrowing down to maybe schools where you have a higher number of students in poverty, the reality is that we have students in poverty in all of our districts, and it's not just It's limited to certain areas or not always concentrated. Secondly, you don't know when you're going to have an emergency and so that emergency, your period isn't discriminative, if you're a woman of low income or not and so having access. Thirdly, there's a lot of shame to our periods and so having to go ask someone else, having to go to a nurse, having to find someone when you have an emergency Is really hard for a lot of these young ladies who are starting to get used to what their bodies are doing what their biology means there's a lot of stigma to this topic. And so I mean I'm willing to explore the idea and have those discussions, but I do think that all women should have access to this irrespective of their income status. On colleges and Universities we know that a lot of our students are food insecure, that's an essential, and if they can't afford food they can't afford these products often, and so they're missing school. So this also beings a barrier for women in college and beyond, we deal with our periods for 40 years, and in all honesty if it were up to me this would be available in every public restroom just like toilet paper is available in every restroom out there. On the topic of private school and public schools that goes back to my attention earlier before Committee today it's not something I had thought about willing to discuss that also as this bill moves forward. But I think it comes down to the fact that. Whether we're in public school or private schools, whether we're rich or poor, whether it's middle school, high school, or the University level, we deal with this on a regular basis and emergencies just pop up without our control. And so there's a lot of consequences with the lack of certainty about what our body's going to do sometimes.
[00:22:41]  : 
	Ms. Weber.
[00:22:42] Shirley Weber: 
	Yes, I want to thank my assemblywoman for bringing up this bill that's very, very important. It was interesting me as I travel around the world that many countries have this available. It was just there and it's not the machines as you pay for any of those things. But when they think it's a priority, it's a health issue, some need, it's there. Pretty much what we do with Band-Aids and other things that we mandate that schools have access to for emergency. And this is a part of it. Even in the restroom here in the lounge for the assemblywomen, who obviously all have adequate income, or some income. The products are free. They're available, and there's no machine for any money, and it's available to the women there who may need it. So I think, we sometimes think it's only those who are poor, but oftentimes these emergencies occur, and they need to be responded to. And it is unfortunate when you have children, and I've seen several young children, who do things that people did 50 years ago when they didn't have these products. And when we consider this, that it's not a luxury it's not something that and you don't find even in those cases of people hoarding them. When I was in restrooms in South Africa they were readily available, they were there, also condoms were there, everything they believe in was free because they wanted to protect the folks from any kind of infection, any kind of disease and so it was made available. And I think we're finally moving to another level in this country where we are free to have these conversations. But also recognize our responsibility that this is a healthy issue and you are teaching young people healthy habits, sometimes in the process of this. So I'm pleased that you brought this forward. I thank you very much, and I will encourage my colleagues to support it.
[00:24:27] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	Okay, thank you. I appreciated you bring this forward as well. Listen I've being that teacher and I am that parent. I've been a teacher in the classroom that has a student come up say, hey Mr. O'Donnell I need to go quickly and I know that can be a real challenging for a kid to do. Sometimes they have their friend come in and say hey Mr. O'Donnell you know Susie has got to go to the bathroom and she's gotta go quick but she doesn't want to tell you. So I think your attempt here today is to take care of the challenge. And that would helped me as a teacher classroom too because it's a challenge for me too quite frankly.  And with two daughters, I have two middle school daughters too, I don't want to put them in a position where they are embarrassed or they don't have the things that they need to stay healthy, so I appreciate this too. And as too why we're including this in private schools, if you look at the current code section, the current law does speak to bathroom tissue, it does speak to toilet paper. So I think it would be appropriate to include it in private schools, because those students have needs too. This doesn't discriminate against income, right. These things happen and they happen on an emergency basis. I don't know the woman's body like they do for sure I don't think the right ear twitches and says hey you need to be prepared right? It just happens and the schools need to be prepared, make sure that is a safe place for our children to attend and a safe place Where their emotional well-being is addressed too so thank you. With that, seeing no further comments, we have a motion and we have a second. Please call the roll. The motion is due pass to appropriations.

[Closing Remarks]
[00:26:02] Committee Secretary: 
	Due pass to appropriation, O'Donnell.
[00:26:06] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	I'm sorry, you know what? We're going to let her close. So I apologize.
[00:26:08] Cristina Garcia: 
	Thank you, I just want to say, even as woman, I hadn't given this a lot of thought but I've had a lot of young women approach me and tell me that they missed school or they used things like toilet paper with socks and other things to get through because they know education is so important to them. And so I'm excited that we're having this discussion about these important health products and thank you for your comments Mr. Chairman and I appreciate the support.

[Vote]
[00:26:34] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	Thank you, again call the roll please. The motion is due pass to appropriations.
[00:26:39] Committee Secretary: 
	O'Donnell? O'Donnell aye, Chavez, Gloria? Gloria aye, Kiley? Kiley no, McCartey, Thurmond, Weber? Weber aye.
[00:26:51] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	The bill has three votes, it is on call.

[Outro]
[00:26:51] Cristina Garcia: 
	Thank you.
[00:27:05] Patrick O'Donnell: 
	We'll go to file item number 11. Ms. Cervantes, you may proceed when ready. It's file item number 11.